<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_api_testing_overview">
  <title>API Testing Overview</title>

  <shortdesc>API testing in Postman verifies that an API behaves correctly by sending requests
    and validating responses against expected values. Tests are written in JavaScript and run
    automatically after each response.</shortdesc>

  <conbody>

    <p>API testing is the process of verifying that an API returns the correct responses for a
      given set of inputs. In Postman, you write tests as JavaScript assertions that run
      immediately after a response is received. Postman reports pass or fail results for each
      assertion in the <uicontrol>Test Results</uicontrol> tab.</p>

    <section id="types-of-tests">
      <title>Types of API Tests</title>
      <p>Postman supports the following categories of API tests:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Functional Tests</dt>
          <dd>Verify that an API endpoint returns the correct data for a given request. For
            example, confirm that a GET request for a user returns the expected user object
            with the correct fields.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Status Code Tests</dt>
          <dd>Confirm that the API returns the expected HTTP status code. For example, a
            successful POST request should return <codeph>201 Created</codeph>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Schema Validation Tests</dt>
          <dd>Validate that the response body matches a predefined JSON schema, ensuring the
            API contract is maintained across releases.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Performance Tests</dt>
          <dd>Assert that the API responds within an acceptable time threshold, such as under
            500 milliseconds.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Negative Tests</dt>
          <dd>Verify that the API returns appropriate error codes and messages for invalid
            inputs, missing fields, or unauthorized requests.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>

    <section id="testing-workflow">
      <title>API Testing Workflow</title>
      <p>A typical API testing workflow in Postman consists of the following steps:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Create a <term>collection</term> to group related API requests.</li>
        <li>Add requests to the collection for each API endpoint you want to test.</li>
        <li>Configure <term>environments</term> and <term>variables</term> to manage base URLs
          and authentication tokens across environments.</li>
        <li>Write <term>test scripts</term> in the <uicontrol>Tests</uicontrol> tab of each
          request.</li>
        <li>Use the <term>Collection Runner</term> to execute all requests in sequence and
          review the test results.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="postman-test-framework">
      <title>Postman Test Framework</title>
      <p>Postman uses the <b>Chai assertion library</b> through the <codeph>pm.expect()</codeph>
        API and the <codeph>pm.test()</codeph> function to define and run tests. Each test
        consists of a descriptive name and an assertion function.</p>
      <p>Postman also provides a <b>Snippets</b> panel in the Tests tab that inserts commonly
        used test patterns with a single click. For a complete list of available snippets, see
        <xref href="r_test_snippets.dita">Test Snippets</xref>.</p>
    </section>

  </conbody>
</concept>
