<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="c_api_documentation_overview">
  <title>API Documentation Overview</title>

  <shortdesc>Postman generates API documentation automatically from collections and lets you
    publish it to a public or private URL. Documentation stays synchronized with your
    collection as you update requests.</shortdesc>

  <conbody>

    <p>Postman documentation is built from the descriptions you write for each collection,
      folder, and request. Postman renders these descriptions as formatted HTML pages that
      include request details, parameters, headers, body schemas, and example responses.</p>

    <p>Published documentation provides developers with a self-service reference for consuming
      your API. It includes interactive examples that readers can copy directly into their
      own environments.</p>

    <section id="documentation-sources">
      <title>Documentation Sources</title>
      <p>Postman assembles documentation from the following sources in your collection:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Collection description</b> — An introduction and overview of the API, written in
          Markdown. This appears at the top of the published documentation page.</li>
        <li><b>Folder descriptions</b> — Introductions to logical groups of endpoints within the
          collection, such as Authentication or User Management.</li>
        <li><b>Request descriptions</b> — Detailed explanations of individual endpoints,
          including purpose, required parameters, and expected responses.</li>
        <li><b>Parameter and header descriptions</b> — Inline descriptions for each query
          parameter, path variable, and header.</li>
        <li><b>Example responses</b> — Saved example responses that Postman displays alongside
          each request in the documentation.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section id="documentation-types">
      <title>Documentation Visibility Options</title>
      <p>When you publish documentation in Postman, you can choose one of the following
        visibility settings:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Public</dt>
          <dd>Anyone with the URL can view the documentation without signing in to Postman.
            Public documentation is indexed by search engines. Use this setting for open
            APIs or developer portals.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Private (Team)</dt>
          <dd>Only members of your Postman team can view the documentation. Use this setting
            for internal APIs that should not be publicly accessible.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <note type="note">
        <p>Custom domains for published documentation require a Basic plan or higher.</p>
      </note>
    </section>

    <section id="documentation-workflow">
      <title>Documentation Workflow</title>
      <p>The recommended workflow for creating and publishing API documentation in Postman is:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Write descriptions for the collection, folders, and each request using Markdown.</li>
        <li>Add saved example responses to each request to illustrate expected outputs.</li>
        <li>Generate a preview of the documentation from the collection menu.</li>
        <li>Publish the documentation and configure the visibility and URL settings.</li>
        <li>Optionally, customize the published documentation with a custom domain, logo, and
          color scheme.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>

  </conbody>
</concept>
