<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_add_test_scripts">
  <title>Add Test Scripts to a Request</title>

  <shortdesc>Write JavaScript test scripts in the Tests tab to validate API responses
    automatically after each request is sent.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you add test scripts, create a request and verify that it returns a response.
        For instructions, see <xref href="t_send_api_request.dita"/>.</p>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>Postman runs test scripts after every response is received. Tests use the
        <codeph>pm.test()</codeph> function combined with <codeph>pm.expect()</codeph>
        assertions from the Chai library. Each test has a name and an assertion. Postman
        reports pass or fail for each assertion in the <uicontrol>Test Results</uicontrol> tab
        of the response viewer.</p>
      <p>You can write tests at the request level or at the collection and folder level.
        Collection-level and folder-level scripts run before or after every request in that
        group.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Open the saved request in the workbench.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Tests</uicontrol> tab in the request builder.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To insert a test quickly, select a snippet from the
          <uicontrol>Snippets</uicontrol> panel on the right side of the Tests tab.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman inserts the snippet code into the test editor.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Modify the inserted snippet or write a custom test in the editor.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>The following example tests verify the status code, content type, and a field
            value in the response body:</p>
          <codeblock language="javascript">// Test 1: Verify status code
pm.test("Status code is 200", function () {
    pm.response.to.have.status(200);
});

// Test 2: Verify Content-Type header
pm.test("Content-Type is JSON", function () {
    pm.expect(pm.response.headers.get("Content-Type"))
      .to.include("application/json");
});

// Test 3: Verify response body field
pm.test("User name is correct", function () {
    const responseBody = pm.response.json();
    pm.expect(responseBody.name).to.eql("Jane Smith");
});

// Test 4: Response time under 500ms
pm.test("Response time is acceptable", function () {
    pm.expect(pm.response.responseTime).to.be.below(500);
});</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Send</uicontrol> to run the request and execute the
          tests.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Test Results</uicontrol> tab in the response viewer to
          review the test outcomes.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Each test displays a green <uicontrol>PASS</uicontrol> or red
          <uicontrol>FAIL</uicontrol> label with the test name. Failed tests include an error
          message explaining the assertion that was not met.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>Postman runs the test scripts after the response is received and reports the results
        in the <uicontrol>Test Results</uicontrol> tab. Passing tests appear in green and
        failing tests appear in red.</p>
    </r>

    <postreq>
      <p>After adding tests to individual requests, run the entire collection to execute all
        tests in sequence. For instructions, see <xref href="t_run_collection.dita">Run a Collection</xref>.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
