<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_customize_documentation">
  <title>Customize Published Documentation</title>

  <shortdesc>Configure the appearance of your published Postman documentation by setting a
    custom logo, theme colors, and a custom domain.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you customize documentation, ensure that the documentation is already
        published. For instructions, see <xref href="t_publish_documentation.dita"/>.</p>
      <p>Custom domain configuration requires a Postman Basic plan or higher.</p>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>Published Postman documentation supports visual customization through the team
        settings in the Postman web dashboard. You can set a logo, choose a theme color,
        and configure a custom domain so the documentation appears under your own
        subdomain.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Sign in to your Postman account at
          <xref href="https://www.postman.com" format="html" scope="external">postman.com</xref>
          and navigate to your team dashboard.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select your team name in the upper-left corner and then select
          <uicontrol>Team Settings</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Public Profile</uicontrol> in the left navigation panel.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To add a logo, select <uicontrol>Upload logo</uicontrol> and upload a PNG or
          SVG image.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>The recommended logo size is 400 x 400 pixels or larger. Postman displays the
            logo in the upper-left corner of the published documentation page.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To configure a custom domain, select <uicontrol>Custom Domain</uicontrol> in the
          left navigation panel.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Domain</uicontrol> field, enter the subdomain you want to use
          for the documentation.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>For example: <userinput>docs.example.com</userinput></p>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Follow the DNS configuration instructions that Postman displays.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>You must add a CNAME record in your DNS provider that points your subdomain to
            the Postman documentation server. DNS changes can take up to 48 hours to
            propagate.</p>
          <ol>
            <li>Log in to your DNS provider's control panel.</li>
            <li>Add a <codeph>CNAME</codeph> record with:
              <ul>
                <li><b>Host:</b> <codeph>docs</codeph> (or your chosen subdomain prefix)</li>
                <li><b>Value:</b> The target provided by Postman, such as
                  <codeph>phs.getpostman.com</codeph></li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>Save the DNS record.</li>
          </ol>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Return to Postman and select <uicontrol>Verify Domain</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman checks the DNS records. When verification succeeds, the custom
          domain becomes active and the documentation is accessible at your custom
          URL.</stepresult>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>The published documentation displays your team logo and is accessible at the custom
        domain you configured. All existing documentation links automatically redirect to the
        new custom domain URL.</p>
    </r>

  </taskbody>
</task>
