<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_generate_documentation">
  <title>Generate API Documentation</title>

  <shortdesc>Generate and preview the API documentation that Postman builds automatically from
    your collection descriptions, requests, and saved examples.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you generate documentation, ensure that you have written descriptions for
        your collection, folders, and requests. For instructions, see
        <xref href="t_write_request_description.dita"/>.</p>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>Postman automatically assembles your collection descriptions, request details,
        parameter tables, and saved examples into a formatted documentation page. You can
        preview this page before publishing it.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the sidebar, hover over the collection name and select the
          <uicontrol>...</uicontrol> (More Actions) icon.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>View documentation</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman opens the documentation preview panel on the right side of the
          workbench. The preview shows the rendered documentation as it will appear when
          published.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Review the documentation preview to verify that all descriptions, parameters,
          headers, and example responses are accurate and complete.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Check the following elements in the preview:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>Collection title and description appear at the top of the page.</li>
            <li>Folder names appear as section headings.</li>
            <li>Each request shows the HTTP method, URL, description, parameters, and
              headers.</li>
            <li>Saved example responses appear in a code block under each request.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>If the documentation requires changes, close the preview panel, update the
          relevant descriptions or requests, and reopen the documentation view.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To select an environment for the documentation, open the environment selector
          in the upper-right corner of Postman and select the environment whose variable
          values you want Postman to use in the documentation examples.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Postman substitutes environment variable values into the URLs and parameters
            shown in the documentation preview. Select the environment that reflects the
            public-facing API endpoint.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>Postman generates and displays the documentation preview based on your collection
        content. The documentation is ready to publish when the preview accurately reflects
        your API.</p>
    </r>

    <postreq>
      <p>Publish the documentation to make it available to API consumers. For instructions,
        see <xref href="t_publish_documentation.dita"/>.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
