<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_publish_documentation">
  <title>Publish API Documentation</title>

  <shortdesc>Publish your Postman collection documentation to a publicly accessible URL so
    that API consumers can view the documentation in a browser without requiring a Postman
    account.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you publish documentation, ensure that:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>You have reviewed the documentation preview and confirmed it is complete. For
          instructions, see <xref href="t_generate_documentation.dita">Generate Documentation</xref>.</li>
        <li>You are signed in to a Postman account with the collection saved to a
          workspace.</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>Publishing documentation in Postman creates a hosted web page at a Postman-generated
        URL. You can share this URL with developers, add it to your developer portal, or
        link it from a README file. Published documentation updates automatically when you
        make changes to your collection.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the documentation preview panel, select
          <uicontrol>Publish</uicontrol> in the upper-right corner.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The <uicontrol>Publish Documentation</uicontrol> dialog opens.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Environment</uicontrol> dropdown, select the environment whose
          variable values Postman will use in the published documentation.</cmd>
        <info>
          <note type="caution">
            <p>Postman replaces variables in the published documentation with their current
              values from the selected environment. Do not select an environment that
              contains sensitive values such as API keys or passwords. Use a dedicated
              documentation environment with sanitized values.</p>
          </note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Under <uicontrol>Visibility</uicontrol>, select
          <uicontrol>Public</uicontrol> to allow anyone with the URL to view the
          documentation.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Review the generated URL displayed in the
          <uicontrol>Documentation URL</uicontrol> field.</cmd>
        <info><note type=important!>
          <p>To use a custom domain, see <xref href="t_customize_documentation.dita"/>.</p></note>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Publish</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman publishes the documentation and displays a confirmation dialog
          with the public URL.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>View documentation</uicontrol> to open the published
          page in your browser and verify the content.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Copy the URL and share it with your API consumers.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>The API documentation is published and accessible at the displayed URL. The page
        updates automatically each time you edit the collection and republish. Viewers do
        not need a Postman account to access public documentation.</p>
    </r>

    <postreq>
      <p>Optionally, customize the documentation with a logo, color scheme, and custom
        domain. For instructions, see <xref href="t_customize_documentation.dita">Customize Documentation</xref>.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
