<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_run_collection">
  <title>Run a Collection</title>

  <shortdesc>Use the Collection Runner to execute all requests in a collection in sequence and
    review the aggregated test results.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you run a collection, ensure that:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>The collection contains at least one request with test scripts.</li>
        <li>An environment is configured with the correct variable values for the target
          system.</li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>The <term>Collection Runner</term> executes all requests in a collection in the order
        they appear in the sidebar. After the run completes, Postman displays a summary of all
        test results, including the number of tests that passed and failed.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the sidebar, hover over the collection name and select the
          <uicontrol>Run collection</uicontrol> icon (the arrow icon), or right-click the
          collection and select <uicontrol>Run collection</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The Collection Runner panel opens.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Environment</uicontrol> dropdown, select the environment to
          use for the run.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Iterations</uicontrol> field, enter the number of times to
          repeat the run. Leave this set to <uicontrol>1</uicontrol> for a single run.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the <uicontrol>Delay</uicontrol> field, enter a delay in milliseconds between
          requests if the API requires rate limiting. A value of
          <userinput>0</userinput> sends requests with no delay.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To run only specific requests, clear the checkboxes next to the requests you want
          to skip in the request list.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Run</uicontrol> (the button labeled with your collection
          name).</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman sends each request in sequence. The runner panel updates in real
          time, showing each request as it completes with a pass or fail
          indicator.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>After the run completes, review the results summary at the top of the runner
          panel.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To view the details of a specific request, select the request name in the results
          list.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman displays the request details, response, and individual test
          assertion results for the selected request.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To export the results as a JSON file, select
          <uicontrol>Export Results</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>The Collection Runner executes all requests and displays a pass or fail result for
        each test assertion. A green indicator next to the collection name in the summary
        indicates all tests passed. A red indicator means one or more tests failed.</p>
    </r>

  </taskbody>
</task>
