<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_send_api_request">
  <title>Send an API Request</title>

  <shortdesc>Configure and send an HTTP request in Postman to test an API endpoint and inspect
    the response.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <prereq>
      <p>Before you send an API request, ensure that you have created a collection to save the
        request to. For instructions, see <xref href="t_create_collection.dita">Create a Collection</xref>.</p>
    </prereq>

    <context>
      <p>Sending a request in Postman involves selecting the HTTP method, entering the endpoint
        URL, configuring parameters or a request body, and selecting
        <uicontrol>Send</uicontrol>. Postman displays the response in the response viewer
        below the request builder.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>New</uicontrol> in the top navigation bar and select
          <uicontrol>HTTP</uicontrol>, or select <uicontrol>+</uicontrol> to open a new
          request tab.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the method selector on the left of the URL bar, select the HTTP method for the
          request: <uicontrol>GET</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>POST</uicontrol>,
          <uicontrol>PUT</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>PATCH</uicontrol>, or
          <uicontrol>DELETE</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the URL bar, type the full endpoint URL.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To add query parameters, select the <uicontrol>Params</uicontrol> tab and enter
          key-value pairs in the table.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To add an authorization header, select the <uicontrol>Authorization</uicontrol>
          tab, select the authorization type from the <uicontrol>Auth Type</uicontrol>
          dropdown, and enter the required credentials.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>For POST, PUT, or PATCH requests, select the <uicontrol>Body</uicontrol> tab and
          configure the request body.</cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Select <uicontrol>raw</uicontrol> and choose <uicontrol>JSON</uicontrol>
              from the format dropdown to send a JSON body.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Type or paste the JSON request body in the text area.</cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>Example JSON request body for creating a user:</p>
          <codeblock language="json">{
  "name": "Jane Smith",
  "email": "jane.smith@example.com",
  "role": "admin"
}</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Send</uicontrol>.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman sends the request and displays the response in the response viewer.
          The status code, response time, and response size appear in the header of the
          response panel.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Review the response in the <uicontrol>Body</uicontrol> tab of the response
          viewer.</cmd>
        <info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To save the request to a collection, select <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>, choose a
          collection and folder, and select <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>Postman sends the request and displays the response. The status code appears in the
        upper-right of the response panel. For a list of common status codes and their
        meanings, see <xref href="r_status_codes.dita">Status Codes</xref>.</p>
    </r>

    <postreq>
      <p>Add test scripts to validate the response automatically. For instructions, see
        <xref href="t_add_test_scripts.dita">Add Test Scripts</xref>.</p>
    </postreq>
  </taskbody>
</task>
