<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_use_environments">
  <title>Use Environments and Variables</title>

  <shortdesc>Create Postman environments to manage variables such as base URLs and
    authentication tokens, and switch between development, staging, and production
    configurations without editing individual requests.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>An <term>environment</term> in Postman is a set of key-value pairs called
        <term>variables</term>. Variables let you write requests once and run them against
        different configurations by changing the active environment. For example, the variable
        <codeph>{{baseUrl}}</codeph> can point to <codeph>http://localhost:3000</codeph> in
        the development environment and to <codeph>https://api.example.com</codeph> in the
        production environment.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the sidebar, select <uicontrol>Environments</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the <uicontrol>+</uicontrol> icon to create a new environment.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Type a name for the environment, such as
          <userinput>Development</userinput>, <userinput>Staging</userinput>, or
          <userinput>Production</userinput>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In the variable table, enter variable names and their initial and current
          values.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To activate the environment, open the environment selector in the upper-right
          corner of Postman and select the environment name from the dropdown.</cmd>
        <stepresult>The environment name appears in the selector and Postman resolves all
          <codeph>{{variableName}}</codeph> references in requests using the current
          values from the active environment.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>In your requests, replace hardcoded values with variable references using double
          curly braces.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>Replace a hardcoded URL:</p>
          <codeblock>https://api.example.com/users/1</codeblock>
          <p>With a variable reference:</p>
          <codeblock>{{baseUrl}}/users/{{userId}}</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>Postman resolves variable references in request URLs, headers, and body content using
        the values from the active environment. You can switch environments at any time using
        the environment selector without modifying individual requests.</p>
    </r>

  </taskbody>
</task>
