<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_write_request_description">
  <title>Write Request Descriptions</title>

  <shortdesc>Add Markdown descriptions to your collection, folders, and individual requests
    to build the content that Postman uses to generate API documentation.</shortdesc>

  <taskbody>

    <context>
      <p>Descriptions in Postman support Markdown formatting, including headings, bold and
        italic text, bullet lists, numbered lists, tables, and inline code. The descriptions
        you write appear directly in the published documentation alongside the request
        details.</p>
      <p>Write descriptions that explain the purpose of each endpoint, the required and
        optional parameters, the expected response structure, and any important notes for
        API consumers.</p>
    </context>

    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>To write a collection description, select the collection name in the sidebar to
          open the collection overview panel, and then select the
          <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> icon in the <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol>
          section.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Write a Markdown description for the collection.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>Example collection description:</p>
          <codeblock language="markdown">## User Management API

The User Management API provides endpoints for creating, retrieving,
updating, and deleting user accounts.

**Base URL:** `https://api.example.com/v1`

**Authentication:** All requests require a Bearer token in the
`Authorization` header.

**Rate Limits:** 100 requests per minute per API key.</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To write a folder description, select the folder name in the sidebar to open the
          folder overview, and add a description in the same way.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To write a request description, open a request in the workbench, hover over the
          request name at the top of the request builder, and select the
          <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> icon to add a description.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Write a clear description for the request.</cmd>
        <stepxmp>
          <p>Example request description for a GET endpoint:</p>
          <codeblock language="markdown">Retrieves a single user by their unique ID.

**Path Parameters**

| Parameter | Type   | Required | Description          |
|-----------|--------|----------|----------------------|
| `id`      | string | Yes      | The unique user ID.  |

**Response**

Returns a user object with the following fields:

- `id` — Unique identifier for the user.
- `name` — Full name of the user.
- `email` — Email address of the user.
- `role` — User role: `admin` or `member`.
- `createdAt` — ISO 8601 timestamp of account creation.</codeblock>
        </stepxmp>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>To add a saved example response, send the request and receive a real response,
          then select <uicontrol>Save as example</uicontrol> from the response panel.</cmd>
        <stepresult>Postman saves the example response and includes it in the generated
          documentation alongside the request.</stepresult>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add descriptions to the remaining folders and requests in the collection.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>

    <r>
      <p>Descriptions are saved and will appear in the generated API documentation.
        Saved example responses are included as reference examples for API consumers.</p>
    </r>

    <postreq>
      <p>After writing descriptions for all requests, generate the documentation. For
        instructions, see <xref href="t_generate_documentation.dita">Generate Documentation</xref>.</p>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>
</task>
